# Brain-Cancer-Detection

# Abstract 
Brain tumors are a mass or collection of abnormalcells and tissues in the brain which can be benign or malignant.These grow to cause deleterious brain damage due to the increase in pressure caused inside the brain. The diagnosis of thesetumors requires highly skilled clinicians and is sometimes proneto human errors. The proposal is to help facilitate the clinicians,doctors, and surgeons in effective visualization and diagnosis ofthese inimical brain tumors. The proposed method uses the implementation of a computer-aided diagnosis system that acts asan assistive tool to diagnose or interpret brain tumor regions inMR (Magnetic Resonance) images. It is a solution that enablesthe clinician to obtain a report on the MR images of the patientusing a neural network-based computer-aided diagnosis systemby implementing Mask-Region based Convolutional Neural Network to carry out the instance segmentation of tumors. This willlead to the detection of different major types of brain tumors likeglioma, meningioma, and pituitary for easy and accurate visualization. The qualitative analysis performed to verify and evaluatethe performance of the proposed system indicated an accuracy of96.4%. Further, an Intersection Over Union value of 0.955 wasobserved for localization of the major brain tumors in the brainMR images procured from MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging)scans.

Refer: P. Pranav and P. Samhita, "Automated Computer-aided Diagnosis for Brain Tumor Detection," 2021 13th Biomedical Engineering International Conference (BMEiCON), Ayutthaya, Thailand, 2021, pp. 1-5, doi: 10.1109/BMEiCON53485.2021.9745232.
